
Network Used
ssd_mobilenet_v1_coco_2017_11_17
Getting it inside the code.

Things I learnt during the project:

Key terms:

Tensor: A tensor is a collection of feature vectors (i.e., array) of n-dimensions

Tensorflow: An open source Machine learning platform.

Cocoapi: A large image dataset designed for object detection, segmentation, person keypoints detection.

Protocol Buffers (Protobuf): A method of serializing structured data.
One of the use of Protobuf in TensorFlow is the protbuf file contains the graph definition as well as the weights of the model. Thus, a pb file is all you need to be able to run a given trained model.

TensorBoard: A dashborad which provides the visualization and tooling needed for machine learning experimentation.

Technical skills acquired:
Gained beginner's understanding of using Tensorflow. Learnt about in-built functions such as squeeze, shape, axis, reshape; Graphs (a binary file), Sessions, OpenCV(elementary)  

Frozen graph - A pre-trained model which can be loaded to perform predictions.


Challenges:
New to Tensorflow and object detection concepts.
Tried GPU based Tf training,
Attempted Tensorflow installations on Ubuntu and Windows. On Ubuntu I faced hardware and memory space limitations, while on windows 'make' file did not compile with GPU and CUDA enanbled.
Due to time limitations, carried on with CPU Tf.

  
Knowledge used:
Past experience with Machine learning concepts, graphs and Python modules like Numpy, Pillow, pickle helped in understanding the related concepts.


Takeaways:
Learned and acquired hands on experience on technical skills new to me within a stringent time frame.
On top of using existing labelled data (inference graph) provided by a pre trained model, I also explored opportunities of enhancing the trained set with new images and generating a new inference graph.
Also, explored how to freeze new graph and train them iteratively.


Few improvement ideas:
1) Train new images in addition to the ones offered by the trained networks used
2) Experiment with improved hardware and other networks.


